README.md, before:

A simple, efficient column-oriented, pythonic data store.

The focus is currently on efficiency of reading and writing.  The code is pure
python but searching and reading data is fast due to the use of numpy memory
maps and column indexing.  Basic consistency is ensured but the database is not
fully ACID.

The storage is a simple directory with files on disk.

Examples
--------

```python
>>> import pycolumns as pyc

# instantiate a column database from the specified coldir
>>> c=pyc.Columns('/some/path/mycols.cols')

# display some info about the columns
>>> c
Column Directory:

  dir: /some/path/mydata.cols
  Columns:
    name             type  dtype index  shape
    --------------------------------------------------
    ccd             array    <i2 True   (64348146,)
    dec             array    <f8 False  (64348146,)
    exposurename    array   |S20 True   (64348146,)
    id              array    <i8 False  (64348146,)
    imag            array    <f4 False  (64348146,)
    ra              array    <f8 False  (64348146,)
    x               array    <f4 False  (64348146,)
    y               array    <f4 False  (64348146,)
    g               array    <f8 False  (64348146, 2)
    meta             json


  Sub-Column Directories:
    name
    --------------------------------------------------
    psfstars

# display info about column 'id'
>>> c['id']
Column:
  "id"
  filename: ./id.array
  type: col
  shape: (64348146,)
  has index: False
  dtype: <i8

# get the column names
>>> c.colnames
['ccd', 'dec', 'exposurename', 'id', 'imag', 'ra', 'x', 'y', 'g', 'meta']

# reload all columns or specified column/column list
>>> c.reload(name=None)

# read all data from column 'id'
# alternative syntaxes
>>> id = c['id'][:]
>>> id = c['id'].read()
>>> id = c.read_column('id')

# json columns are read as a dict
>>> meta = c['meta'].read()

# read a subset of rows
# slicing 
>>> id = c['id'][25:125]

# specifying a set of rows
>>> rows=[3, 225, 1235]
>>> id = c['id'][rows]
>>> id = c.read_column('id', rows=rows)

# read all columns into a single rec array.  By default the JSON
# columns are not loaded

>>> data = c.read()

# using asdict=True puts the data into a dict.  The JSON data
# are loaded in this case
>>> data = c.read(asdict=True)

# specify columns
>>> data = c.read(columns=['id', 'flux'], rows=rows)

# JSON columns can be specified if asdict is True
>>> data = c.read(columns=['id', 'flux', 'meta'], asdict=True)

# Create indexes for fast searching
>>> c['id'].create_index()

# get indices for some condition
>>> ind = c['id'] > 25
>>> ind = c['id'].between(25, 35)
>>> ind = c['id'] == 25

# read the corresponding data
>>> ccd = c['ccd'][ind]
>>> data = c.read(columns=['ra', 'dec'], rows=ind)

# composite searches over multiple columns
>>> ind = (c['id'] == 25) & (col['ra'] < 15.23)
>>> ind = c['id'].between(15, 25) | (c['id'] == 55)
>>> ind = c['id'].between(15, 250) & (c['id'] != 66) & (c['ra'] < 100)

# update values for a column
>>> c['id'][35] = 10
>>> c['id'][35:35+3] = [8, 9, 10]
>>> c['id'][rows] = idvalues

# write multiple columns from the fields in a rec array
# names in the data correspond to column names.  All array
# columns must be updated at the same time to maintain
# consistency
>>> c.append(recdata)

# write/append data from the fields in a FITS file
>>> c.from_fits(fitsfile_name)
```

Dependencies
------------
numpy

Commit message:

make type dict rather than json.  make create_column visible, mainly for dict

README.md, after:

A simple, efficient column-oriented, pythonic data store.

The focus is currently on efficiency of reading and writing.  The code is pure
python but searching and reading data is fast due to the use of numpy memory
maps and column indexing.  Basic consistency is ensured but the database is not
fully ACID.

The storage is a simple directory with files on disk.

Examples
--------

```python
>>> import pycolumns as pyc

# instantiate a column database from the specified coldir
>>> c=pyc.Columns('/some/path/mycols.cols')

# display some info about the columns
>>> c
Column Directory:

  dir: /some/path/mydata.cols
  Columns:
    name             type  dtype index  shape
    --------------------------------------------------
    ccd             array    <i2 True   (64348146,)
    dec             array    <f8 False  (64348146,)
    exposurename    array   |S20 True   (64348146,)
    id              array    <i8 False  (64348146,)
    imag            array    <f4 False  (64348146,)
    ra              array    <f8 False  (64348146,)
    x               array    <f4 False  (64348146,)
    y               array    <f4 False  (64348146,)
    g               array    <f8 False  (64348146, 2)
    meta             dict


  Sub-Column Directories:
    name
    --------------------------------------------------
    psfstars

# display info about column 'id'
>>> c['id']
Column:
  "id"
  filename: ./id.array
  type: col
  shape: (64348146,)
  has index: False
  dtype: <i8

# get the column names
>>> c.colnames
['ccd', 'dec', 'exposurename', 'id', 'imag', 'ra', 'x', 'y', 'g', 'meta']

# reload all columns or specified column/column list
>>> c.reload(name=None)

# read all data from column 'id'
# alternative syntaxes
>>> id = c['id'][:]
>>> id = c['id'].read()
>>> id = c.read_column('id')

# dict columns are read as a dict
>>> meta = c['meta'].read()

# read a subset of rows
# slicing
>>> id = c['id'][25:125]

# specifying a set of rows
>>> rows=[3, 225, 1235]
>>> id = c['id'][rows]
>>> id = c.read_column('id', rows=rows)

# read all columns into a single rec array.  By default the dict
# columns are not loaded

>>> data = c.read()

# using asdict=True puts the data into a dict.  The dict data
# are loaded in this case
>>> data = c.read(asdict=True)

# specify columns
>>> data = c.read(columns=['id', 'flux'], rows=rows)

# dict columns can be specified if asdict is True
>>> data = c.read(columns=['id', 'flux', 'meta'], asdict=True)

# Create indexes for fast searching
>>> c['id'].create_index()

# get indices for some condition
>>> ind = c['id'] > 25
>>> ind = c['id'].between(25, 35)
>>> ind = c['id'] == 25

# read the corresponding data
>>> ccd = c['ccd'][ind]
>>> data = c.read(columns=['ra', 'dec'], rows=ind)

# composite searches over multiple columns
>>> ind = (c['id'] == 25) & (col['ra'] < 15.23)
>>> ind = c['id'].between(15, 25) | (c['id'] == 55)
>>> ind = c['id'].between(15, 250) & (c['id'] != 66) & (c['ra'] < 100)

# update values for a column
>>> c['id'][35] = 10
>>> c['id'][35:35+3] = [8, 9, 10]
>>> c['id'][rows] = idvalues

# write multiple columns from the fields in a rec array
# names in the data correspond to column names.
# If columns are not present, they are created
# but row count consistency must be maintained for all array
# columns and this is checked.

>>> c.append(recdata)

# append data from the fields in a FITS file
>>> c.from_fits(fitsfile_name)

# add a dict column
>>> c.create_column('meta')
>>> c['meta'].write({'test': 'hello'})
```

Dependencies
------------
numpy
